# TM470-Project
Developing a web application to facilitate Appointment management and communication among support staff.

Problem description
A charity runs a community based supported living project in the UK. They plan to replace their current paper-based scheduling and management system with a website.
This new system will allow managers to add or remove clients, support staff members, and supported houses. To set up timetables and access appointment meeting notes. The manager will also have the facilities to create and change client support teams. 
Support staff members will be able to access their timetables. Their timetables will display which client they are to see and what time the appointment is to start.  They will be able to record when they started the support session, the support session ended, and what was done. Support staff members will also be able to send and receive messages related to a client they support and specify the importance of the message.
The system will handle potential problems like a client being assigned two or more key workers and timetable conflicts based around travel time and appointment availability between a client and support staff member. The system will also flag several set behavioural patterns, e.g., a client is continually cancelling support or a client withdrawing from the assistance of a specific support staff member.
nature and context of the problem
•	What is the problem that needs to be solved?
A reliance on using written documents to manage and record staff appointments and the need to use text messages and phone calls for passing client information between multiple support workers.
•	Why is it considered a problem?
Each support worker holds an extensive collection of paperwork related to each person they support this takes up support hours and means much time is spent checking paperwork from different support workers associated with a single client this can mean behavioural signs are missed.
Using phone calls to liaise between multiple support workers is difficult as a support worker may not be able to answer the phone in a support session this can have severe repercussions in the response time to a client in distress.
•	What will be the benefits of solving it?
Fewer support hours will be spent on paperwork. Introducing a priority-based messaging system will improve communication among support staff. The missing of messages being one of the most common complaints from support staff. 
Also, a system to automatically flag common behavioural signs and inform the specific client’s key worker ensuring these behavioural signs are not missed; this is one of the concerns for key workers that manage multiple clients with the most commonly missed behavioural sign being cancelled appointments. These will all help in the task of supporting clients.

•	What are the key ICT aspects of this problem?
To replace the current paper-based system with a website accessible from any device with a browser, this will allow access to and modification of information about appointments, appointment notes, clients, support staff members, and the charity-controlled houses that act as clients accommodation while at the charity.
The website will have the functionality to automatic handle some behavioural checks, message passing, retrieving information, or saving data to a database. Another problem will be the need for the system to be useable by support staff on the move. As most support staff will use the system moving between appointments. 
•	What is your existing knowledge of this problem?
I already possess the Java knowledge to create back-end object representations. Also, I have used some HTML and CSS before. The areas I will need to learn related to the back-end database design and on the Front-end, JavaScript, and JSON to update the web page. Restful API to pass JSON objects to and from the back-end Java. Also, linking the back-end java to the database through SQL.
•	What might the solution look like?
The solution will be a web app that runs through the device’s browser in the style of the charity’s homepage. The web app will implement responsive design so that functionality and layout will fit the screen size of the display. The plan will be different depending on who has been authenticated a manager or support staff member. A manager will most likely access the web app from a desktop PC and so have more screen space available where support staff members will be accessing the web app from a mobile device on the move.
The information displayed for a specific support staff member will be their appointments for that day, along with prioritised messages. The website will also have the facilities to access past appointment records, display information relating to a client, support worker, or the houses managed by the charity that act as client accommodation.

•	What, specifically, will you deliver by way of a project output?
A working prototype of the web application and documentation of the development process. A version of the Volere template and artefacts created during each increment’s analysis and design phase. e.g., class diagrams, object diagrams, and sequence diagrams where appropriate.
A working prototype of the web application will allow the stakeholders to give a final evaluation of the system. Also, documentation will enable them to continue the development of the system or its integration.
•	The scope of the system
The scope of the system will be limited to Appointment management, behavioural monitoring, and messaging. Anything outside of that core set of functionalities will be added to a waiting room of possible expansions to the system later. The waiting room list is in appendix A page 60  

analysis of likely impact
The likely impact of this piece of software firstly relates to if it meets the expectations of the stakeholders, their requirements. Secondly, even if it does meet the requirements of the stakeholders, how well will the charities support staff, clients and managers take to the new system. 
Some of these concerns are part of the development process, trying to incorporate staff into the development decisions to create a sense of ownership early on.
How clients take to the new system will be more complicated as under the current system, a client is given a timetable paper each week. Replacing this with a digital version may not always work; not all clients will have a phone, access to a computer or internet. So, in some cases, the new system will need to act like the old one concerning clients without access to the necessary equipment.
However, if the new system meets the needs of the charity and is accepted by the staff and clients. Replacing an in-use paper system would be a challenge and probably require implementing the system in several test cases with trained staff and managers and a small selection of clients used alongside the paper system to at least keep the same level of care.
Another area of impact will be the cost of not just implementing the new system but its maintenance. Using a software-based system will always be more expensive to maintain than a paper-based model, but there is the possibility of the system overall be more cost-effective relating to the working hour costs. If managers and support staff can work more effectively with the new system, it could save time on paperwork and communication. When the project is complete, and under test, this could be checked how long a manager takes to set up a new client using the paper system or software system.
One of the leading legal and professional issues with this project is the storage and handling of sensitive data — the information relating to a client’s mental health. 
Before a client can receive care, they or a representative sign a permission form relating to their personal information; this allows medical disclosure to their direct support team and the support team managers. If the client or representative do not sign this permission form, then the charity will not be able to provide support. 
So, the system should only allow authenticated support staff members access to client data they are authorised for, Information about clients they directly support. Considering the release of sensitive data is a crime under the GDPR; this is a paramount concern for the charity. 
The charity will need to consider how it will hold this data, directly in their servers or a third-party cloud provider. If the information is to be hosted by a cloud provider, then how this relates to the laws regarding data protection will need to be examined.
When discussing data protection, there are two essential terms to understand. ‘Data Controller’ and ‘data processor.’ These terms relate to who is responsible for personal data under the GDPR.
If the charity were to move its data to a cloud service, that data would not be held in isolation. It would be part of shared infrastructure separated virtually. If at any point, there was a data leak. The charity as the data controller would be liable and not the cloud provider as they would be considered the data processor.
Another important consideration is where the data will be stored. This question of jurisdiction is complex. Moreover, could mean that the charity as a Data Controller could be required to release data legally to a different country and in doing so, be in violation of the GDPR; this can be managed by knowing and having control of where the cloud provider is storing the charity data. For example, storing the charity’s data in the European Union will mean it follows GDPR as all EU member states enforce the GDPR. 
All of this needs a more detailed investigation into the charity’s responsibilities based on their decisions regarding the processing and storage of sensitive data. Even if the charity decided to store that data themselves in their servers, the data would need to be secured at rest, through some form of encryption and secured on the move using TLS/SSL. 
